this is the XPS 13 from 2020 it's the
9300 and I have a very special
relationship with this product line it
was the very first laptop I reviewed on
this channel like the 2015 XPS 13 and
it's also the device that I often
recommend to people when they just asked
me hey Dave what Windows laptop would
you recommend for people that just don't
know a lot about computers they just
want like an easy recommendation I often
lead them to this XPS 13 because it's
just a really good product line from
Dell it's not super expensive they
improve on it every year and just most
people can enjoy this product quite
readily so I look at this thing
critically I look at this thing through
the eyes of someone that would actually
want to use this thing as my main
computer now they revamped the XPS 13
this year I didn't expect them to last
year was already really good but they
completely redid it and they improved on
a lot of features but they actually made
a few things less good but let's get
into it first thing design and
aesthetics this thing is incredibly
nice-looking its small its compact its
lightweight but this year actually went
for the black carbon fiber model so last
year I had like the white one this year
went for like the black finish there's
something about the way that Dell does
their carbon fiber that is very unique
it's soft to the touch its durable its
inviting to use I think a lot of people
enjoy the way that the black carbon
fiber feels on this device so I went for
it again this year the white models they
look really nice but they're not as nice
to use because they don't have that soft
touch material that the black carbon
fiber does now on the surface of this
device I'm running ad brand scan this is
the black matrix I just do it for the
looks but it does have a degree of
protection if you kind of bang your
device around okay
ports this year they only include two
USB ports there's one USB see on the
left and then you've one use PC on the
right that's it last year's model had a
third USB see now I can give it a pass
with two I mean like there are some
devices out there like that 12-inch
MacBook that only have a single port but
if you're someone that connects a lot of
devices to their laptop you're gonna
have to get some adapters there's also a
headphone jack on the left and an SD
card slot or a micro SD card slot on the
right if you'll notice they're actually
missing the light indicator for battery
so they used to have this button you
could press to check on battery life and
now
I don't think people often relied on
that button to check on the battery
status of their device it's just
something that's existed on so many
older XPS 13 devices it's weird to see
it gone okay one thing I did notice on
this machine that was very unique or new
this year you can open the device with
one hand and it seems to be something
that people wanted I've personally never
found it super important or super
valuable to have that feature but I can
see being useful in certain scenarios
especially for holding something with
the other hand you just only have one
hand to do it it's nice it's more the
fact that they spent the time and effort
to engineer the hinge so it could be
done like that like they certainly
didn't need to add this feature at all
right all the XPS 13 is in the past
they'd never been able to do this people
still bought them but it's nice that
they did it this year
now the screen has also been changed
this is now running a 16 by 10 aspect
ratio instead of the more traditional 16
by 9 is just a little more vertical
space it's a 13 point 4 inch screen this
is a really nice aspect ratio for this
type of device I've always been a big
fan of 16 by 10 ultrabooks the screen is
bright it's got pretty good color
accuracy it's a really nice screen it
does not however have touch sensitivity
there are some configurations that
Dubuis have to pay quite a bit more to
be able to have that feature the webcam
is up top it's in a good spot again this
year and the 20/20 model supports
Windows hello so you can log into
Windows with just your face biometrics
it's really nice wonderful screen now if
you don't want to use face ID you can
also use your fingerprint sensor that's
at the top of the keyboard so I guess
let's talk about the keyboard so this is
it's a redesigned keyboard and I really
like it now I'm partial to the layout of
the XPS 13 so I've always enjoyed how
they've positioned their keys they've
tweaked a couple things for one the left
and right keys are now full-size keys
instead of those half keys from the 2019
model so you don't hit the page up and
page down by mistake I really like this
layout but I can see how some people
won't if you're someone that uses page
up and page down frequently and you were
used to the position and you wanted
physical dedicated keys you now lose
that you now have to hit function up
function down but I love the layout on
this thing I think most people will
enjoy it the keys themselves they feel
awesome now maybe it's because I've used
so many bad Ultrabook keyboards in the
recent years these feel wonderful
they're bigger keys than last year's
model they're responsive the key travel
is nice I think a lot of people will
enjoy this keyboard okay the trackpad
this is also slightly bigger this year
than it was last year it's not a huge
trackpad I think it's appropriately
sized for a 13-inch Ultrabook the
tracking is good it's got windows
precision drivers but the click it's
different this year it's like a thump
you're quieter sound still feel solid
like you compared to last year's model
this is a 2019 one it's just a louder
sharper click first of the thump ear
okay
speaking of sound the speakers on this
model ok here's the thing over the years
laptop manufacturers have ruined laptop
speakers because they always market them
with these like fancy names and these
fancy brands to make people think that
their crappy speakers actually sound
good
this year these are actually good
they're way better than last year's
model and way better than the vast
majority of Ultrabook speakers out there
and I think it's because of wattage
these are 2 watt speakers instead of
your standard like one or one and a half
watt speakers they are not as good as
macbook speakers but i think that if you
care about sound you won't be
disappointed by these
[Laughter]
[Music]
[Applause]
in terms of performance I think Dell did
a really good job considering what's
going on here and a fin and light ultra
book like this it's running 10th gen
Intel chips these are similar in CPU
performance to last your stuff but the
graphical performance is noticeably
better it's still not great for gaming
right even something like overwatch not
a particularly demanding game it doesn't
run all that well like it's playable but
it's gonna stutter here and there
if you wanted to have your stuff it
still can't compete with an H Series
chip from Intel and I would really like
to see an AMD chip in this chassis that
would be awesome
but performance on the whole is quite
good and I actually think the thermal
system on this year's bottle is slightly
improved compared to last year's model
so if you take a look at the inside
there's quite a few things that have
changed but even the back panel has been
upgraded a little so this grille here
used to be made out of plastic and it
was something that could be easily
broken when you're opening the device
it's now part of the machined aluminum
bottom panel so inside we see two fans
that are in a different position this
year than they were in previous years
they're now on the left and right so you
get more even heat dissipation the Wi-Fi
card is on board you can't replace that
unfortunately it's a killer Wi-Fi card
which I know it's based on Intel's
hardware but it's got some software
stuff do you have to finagle with the
RAM is soldered on can't replace that
but the SSD thank goodness is still
replaceable I thought that they would
bake these things on board because their
newest XPS 13 2 and ones had them built
into the motherboard but this is still
replaceable the SSD they include is from
SK Hynix but you can easily upgrade that
if you want and if you look on the left
and right you can actually see the
antennas they just have them out in the
open on this particular model now the
battery down here 52 watt hours they
haven't changed the size but I'm still
getting a comfortable 10 hours on this
particular battery if you get a higher
resolution screen it's probably less but
10 hours on the 1080p model without a
touchscreen the other thing I noticed on
this device is that the headphone jack
assembly is separate from the
motherboard instead of a jack that's
just built into the motherboard it's the
separate assembly that sits inside the
bottom panel and then when you close it
up there's pogo pins that connect it to
the motherboard and I don't know why
they did it like this maybe was like a
space-saving thing but I've never seen
anything like this I thought I'd just
show it to you guys because it's pretty
cool ok I want to close this discussion
off with the pricing and the
configurations of this new XPS 13 so on
the website they have the cheap model
starting at 999 dollars but that thing
is four gigs of RAM and I've said this
before in previous videos I gotta say it
again
you should not sell a premium device
like this an XPS 13 with only four gigs
of RAM it just it doesn't make sense
it's disrespectful to the consumer to
have something like that available on
your website like when every other
manufacturer out there
putting eight gigs of RAM as a minimum
in their base models don't sell a four
gig line like when phones like you can
buy a 20/20 smartphone with eight gigs
of ram for 250 bucks
what is this four gig model doing it
doesn't make sense anyways aside from
that weird RAM configuration on their
website I really feel like they did a
really good job on this year's XPS 13
they did a whole bunch of improvements
is a really nice looking machine and I
really recommend it for anyone that's
interested in a device that does all the
Ultrabook stuff okay hope you guys
enjoyed this video thumbs we liked it
subs if you loved it
see you guys next time
[Music]